[Music]
how much does your mobile phone mean to
you
not that much you just use it to make
private more calls send messages for
both fun and business take pictures and
share them on social networks and
through messengers it navigates you it
answers all your questions you also have
some important apps installed so it gets
you a cab when you need it orders food
for you and keeps you entertained when
you have spare time and feel bored there
is a good chance it also wakes you up in
the morning did we get it right give us
a thumbs up if it's more or less true
for you and listen to what we have to
tell you we will not try to encourage
you to give up using your mobile phone
altogether however there are some places
and moments you should not share with it
because it can be dangerous for your
health here is a list of real risks your
phone has for you it can cause
nomophobia nomophobia might sound like
something not from this planet but it is
very real can you guess what it means no
mo stands for no mobile phone and phobia
as we all know is fear put together it
is the fear of being without your mobile
phone we all are more or less familiar
with this phobia do you know this
feeling when you frantically search for
your phone everywhere and can't find it
it happens have you heard yourself or
others say something like my whole life
is in it it takes you higher on the
drama scale of this situation losing
your phone is not exactly a nice
experience but living in constant fear
it could happen is even worse no mo
phobic people just have to hold their
phone in their hands all the time to
feel safe and it has to be fully charged
plus they are afraid of finding
themselves somewhere with no coverage
being able to stay in digital touch
becomes the most important thing what
can you do to protect yourself or
someone you care about when you first
see the signs of nomophobia developing
try leaving the phone behind when it is
possible for example when you are out
with your friends or family and a less
addicted person has a phone on them if
something happens they will be able to
call for help and you will see you can
survive without your phone after all
people somehow did that only 20 years
ago
number two it could give you ring xiety
ring xiety is another term which might
sound like fun but it's no fun for those
who have it it is also sometimes called
phantom pocket vibration syndrome how do
you feel about missed calls not a big
deal you can call them back right well
it is a huge deal for those who
experience ring xiety they are afraid of
missing a phone call or a message so
they keep their phone somewhere close
and check it every minute it's okay if
you are expecting an important phone
call but it is not normal when it starts
regularly interfering with your life
like it gives you stress or distracts
you from other things like work or
family remember it is not okay so if you
see that happening to someone they need
help if you feel like it's becoming your
problem try therapy number three it
could mess with your memory when was the
last time you learned something by heart
probably a long time ago indeed our
phones are the best help when we need to
save some information somewhere the
phone numbers you need are all there
along with poem lines and important
information in your notes there are also
special apps to systemize all the data
you need when you stop challenging your
memory with tasks it can get a little
rusty just like anything else so better
make use of your phone and install
memory boosters on it
there are many memory games and they
actually work number four it lowers your
self-esteem when you start living in
your phone's reality your actual life
starts looking much worse to you you see
the constant stream of utopia' coming on
you from your phone screen your friends
are the celebrities you follow on
Instagram seem to have better clothes
more exciting adventures and greater
achievements than you do in fact their
lives just look way better in general as
a result you can't help wondering what
am I doing wrong am I just not good
enough
this problem is widespread but has an
easy cure you should realize you are
living your life 24/7 or maybe 18 7 if
you spend hours on your phone looking at
the lives of others and you get it
unfiltered yes like those images on
Instagram which get viewer likes because
they were not properly edited you don't
know what is in between those smiles and
happy
as you see online we all have good and
bad times and maybe what seems like a
dream life to you is driving someone who
hasn't nuts so stop waiting for someone
else's exciting updates and create your
own you don't always have to share
everything online to feel and enjoy it
focus on your own life and it will get
better number 5 it can make you gain
weight we are moving from the
psychological to more physical aspects
of overusing your phone it can trick you
into gaining more weight this one might
be hard to believe but we have an
explanation
do you often scroll through your
Facebook or Instagram feed during lunch
most of us do click like if you are with
that group wow there's actually plenty
of us when you focus on your phone and
not your food your brain gets distracted
and it won't be able to send you the
stop you are full signal easy like that
you are overeating and gaining extra
pounds so put your phone aside and enjoy
the taste of food you might find it
surprising how delicious it can be if
you feel every bite number 6 it can
cause pain in your neck and your back
another physical aspect of being a phone
addict is that it can give you neck and
upper back pain we all know constant
staring at a little screen is bad for
our eyes but it turns out hunching over
it can also cause pain in the back of
the neck and your shoulders keep your
back straight even when you are looking
down at your phone screen proper posture
has never done anyone any bad don't
hunch forward lower your eyes and lift
your phone higher instead you can also
try tilting your head from side to side
and from front to back it isn't easy but
effective exercise for your neck now
it's time to talk about the places you
should never keep your phone in we are
about to answer the important question
what will happen to you if you use your
phone in the bathroom keep watching this
video till the end to find out
number seven never take your phone to
the bathroom something we all often lack
today is time so why waste it as you are
spending time in the bathroom while
meeting your biological needs you can
check your facebook updates read the
news or answer those messages you never
had time for it keeps you entertained
but please try to think of some other
entertainment do not put yourself at
risk any bathroom even your private one
is a dirty place it is home to germs
like e.coli c-diff and Salmonella they
are hiding in places you expect to meet
them least of all
so basically anywhere you put your phone
in the bathroom is unsafe also when you
touch anything in the bathroom and then
take your phone the germs from your
hands transferred directly to your phone
it is their dream destination and a safe
haven why it heats up when it is used
and bacteria just love the heat they can
survive in it much longer and even worse
than that they can spread further it
works easy like that they travel from
the bathroom onto your phone from your
dirty hands and further back to your
body your phone screen is the dirtiest
place because you touch it most often
experts even say we can carry feces on
our phones and they can also spread to
our bodies
yikes contamination levels are different
in private and public bathrooms of
course it is much worse in your office
restaurant or a movie theater than at
your house but even the latter is not
safe so never take your phone to the
bathroom again unless you want to spread
bacteria and catch some disease we
believe you don't number eight never put
your phone in your pocket it might seem
like the perfect place for it but in
fact your phone should not be in your
pocket we all know cell phones emit
radiation it won't kill you but it won't
make you stronger either some parts of
your body are more vulnerable than
others research has shown keeping your
phone on your hip can weaken your pelvis
area plus radiation can affect male
fertility and you don't want to mess
with that right if there is a man
somewhere around you who likes keeping
his phone in his front pocket tell him
it's a bad idea if you are that man just
stop it
you see that keeping your phone in your
pocket is bad for you
but it is also bad for your phone many
iPhone 5 users bent or broke their
phones by sitting on them as funny as it
sounds it can happen if the phone is in
your back pocket manuals for newer
iPhones recommend you to keep the device
at least 10 millimeters away from your
body when kept in your pocket your phone
can call 9-1-1 by accident because it
doesn't have to be unlocked to do it
nearly 30% of all 911 calls in San
Francisco for example are but dials
finally it may sound like a scary story
you can tell your kids your phone could
catch fire if it does not get enough air
it generates heat and there can be too
much of it which can cause
malfunctioning there were reported cases
when it actually happened and people
caught fire in their pants pockets if
you don't want to risk that much in so
many ways you can find a better place
for your phone number 9 it does not
belong in your bedroom your electronic
friend is most likely the first thing
you see in the morning and use right
before going to sleep it is sort of a
modern age bedtime reading 8 out of 10
people keep their mobile phones on
overnight and 50% use their phones as an
alarm clock
it just seems natural to go through your
mail or social networks before going to
bed to finish the day and you can't wait
to wake up and see what's new in the
morning there is news for you it's
dangerous for your health to keep your
phone on your bedside table and even in
your bedroom all together
the artificial blue light your phone
emits can suppress the hormones that
promote sleep so you will find it harder
to fall asleep as a result it will
interfere with your body's natural
rhythm it will make your body believe
it's daytime and there is no need to go
to bed it will deprive you of sleep you
need to restore energy for the day
insomnia has never done anyone any good
even if you manage to fall asleep easily
despite that electronic light random
overnight vibration beeping an occurring
light will wake you up long before you
are supposed to so keep your phone out
of your bedroom make sure you share this
video with your friends and family
helped them stay safe and healthy we
hope you liked it there is a like button
to let us know subscribe to our channel
not to miss any updates and stay on the
bright side